{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9                    \fs40 College Management System\fs22\par
\b0\par
\b\fs28 Abstract:\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Mobile technology is one of the vast technologies spreaded between people .The main motivation behind mobile technology is To\par
connect people with each other. Mobile technology has introduced new Environment among student and teacher that can be used to\par
improve todays learning system. Taking into consideration this promising setting, a study was undertaken to realize the impact of such\par
an environment, made possible by the android platform, on the learning process amongst students. The proposed system will\par
introduce and improve interactivity, accessibility, and convenience in the learning process. Overall notification to students will be sent\par
from admin office through app directly. Any new notice for a particular semester will be uploaded by professor through applic ation\par
notifying to respective semester students. Application also includes logic to support above mentioned facilities t o its students,\par
however if the person downloading the application is not a student but an aspirant who has completed HSC and wants to know ab out\par
the college then it only includes the advertisement of the college. Senior college toppers can also share their tips and tricks with other\par
students via chat interface. Student\rquote s attendance is also monitored by the application.\par
\b\fs28\par
 INTRODUCTION\par
\b0\fs22\par
The design and implementation of the system is to provide\par
service in institute and colleges. The system is to provide\par
comprehensive student information system and user interface is\par
to replace the current paper records. College Staff uploads\par
attendance, results and college notifications through a secure,\par
online interface using android devices. All data is thoroughly\par
reviewed and validated on the server before actual record\par
alteration occurs. The system plans for student user interface,\par
allowing students to access tips and tricks as provided by their\par
seniors. All data is stored securely on SQL servers managed by\par
the college Administrator. The system decreases paperwork and\par
time needed to access student records. Previously, college relied\par
heavily on paper records for this initiative which had its own\par
disadvantages. This system provides a simple interface for the\par
maintenance of student information. It can be used by\par
educational institutes or colleges to maintain the records of\par
students easily. Achieving this objective is difficult using a\par
manual system as the information are scattered, can be\par
redundant and collecting relevant information may be very time\par
consuming. Our proposed system ensures to overcome these\par
limitations. The paper focuses on presenting information in an\par
easy and intelligible manner which provides facilities like online\par
registration and profile creation of students, attendance\par
monitoring, circular notifications, thus reducing paper work and\par
automating the record generation process in an educational\par
institution. There is an increasing trend for higher education\par
institutions to be expected to monitor student records. This\par
software generates reports on the results of research that\par
considered the effect of attendance on student performance;\par
surveyed planning students about attendance issues, shared the\par
results with colleagues including agreement on a Departmental\par
policy change, and assessed the approach academic staff should\par
take towards poor attendance.\par
\par
\b\fs28 II. RELATED WORK\par
\b0\fs22\par
There is another part which is feedback, the student can give the\par
feedback at anytime from anywhere to faculty. This feedback\par
can be reviewed by the admin or the management committee of\par
the institute through which the confidentiality of the feedback of\par
the faculty can be maintained. Th is application is developed for\par
daily student attendance in colleges and institutes. It can also be\par
useful in an organization or company at a certain limit not the\par
whole application. The system which is used nowadays has\par
some drawbacks which need to be improved for better\par
performance. The system through which the feedback is taken is\par
not good enough. The views of each and every student are not\par
expressed through these systems. As the technology is\par
developed day by day we need to use this technology so we can\par
get an efficient result in adequate time. For attendance\par
management in the present system all work is done on paper.\par
The whole session attendance is stored in register and at the end\par
of the session the reports are generated. We are not interested in\par
generating report in the middle of the session or as per the\par
requirement because it takes more time in calculation. At the end\par
of session the students who don\rquote t have 75% attendance get a\par
notice. This is a very time consuming process. In the present\par
system the result is viewed on the notice board. It requires lot of\par
paperwork and is time consuming. Moreover, there is no system\par
still present through which students can take advice from senior\par
students. College cannot even provide urgent notifications to\par
students in case of emergency.\par
\par
\b\fs28 III. PROPOSED SYSTEM\par
\par
\b0\fs22 Figure.1.System Architecture\par
The system architecture has a smart phone with android OS, a\par
web services, a database server and the user as its components.\par
The android smart phone or tablet must use network for internet\par
connectivity to ensure better performance however 2G should\par
also satisfy user request with added disadvantage of time lag.\par
The user will login to the application through an android smart\par
phone. The user-type is verified with the database server and\par
access is given to the appropriate user. The web application also\par
can be used to login and perform certain operations such as\par
registration of users, generation of reports. The web application\par
and the android application access data from a common\par
Database server through the internet.\par
\b\fs28 1. User Module:\b0\fs22  In this module we are authenticating the users\par
by providing username and password. If username and password\par
is valid then they will be taken to their screens. To identify user\par
we are using unique IMEI number of android device with the\par
number stored at server. When they get matched with each other\par
system checks the status of that device and transfer the control to\par
respective user-interface.\par
\b\fs28 2. Database Module:\b0\fs22  The proposed system used MySql as its\par
database because of their simplicity and flexibility. This module\par
store every single information about students, faculty and model\par
their data on specified operations. These operation can be\par
storing student attendance, result data or can be authentication\par
credentials.\par
\b\fs28 3. Staff Module:\b0\fs22  This module is designed for staff, which use\par
mobile phone to take attendance, upload result and upload\par
college notifications. The entered admin details are encrypted\par
and sent to server for verification. Only after successful\par
authentication the operations are performed. If username and\par
password cannot match, he/she can enter in to attendance page.\par
\b\fs28 4. Attendance Module:\b0\fs22  The purpose of Attendance Entry\par
Module is to enter the attendance using cell phone. In this\par
module Lecturer takes the attendance using the cell phone.\par
Lecturers select the branch, semester and year. After this session\par
he enters in to attendance page. Here staff makes a mark on the\par
absentees. Lecturer is only allowed to take attendance during\par
their lecture time. In case of swapping of lecture or extra lecture,\par
HOD can allow other faculty to take attendance of students by\par
swapping  the logic of time -table permanently or temporarily.\b\fs28\par
5. Communicate Module:\b0\fs22  in which student or Staff can convey\par
a message or communicate with each other. In this the ordinary\par
text can be sended as well as the various files like in format of\par
Word(.doc,docx),Pdf(.pdf),text(.txt) are can be sended.\b\fs28\par
6. Image Gallery:\b0\fs22  Images related to institute can be seen here.\par
All the images are uploaded by web server or admin\par
\par
\b\fs28 IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION\par
\b0\fs22\par
The application is divided into 3 sub-groups-\par
\b\fs24 [A] Admin :\b0\fs22\par
1) Admin Registration The first step in this application is\par
to get the HOD, staff members and teaching faculty to register.\par
They need to first register their phone\rquote s IMEI number in the\par
database. The respective person will then provide his or her\par
phone\rquote s e-mail id and password for registration. An OTP would\par
be then sent via e-mail address on the phone by the admin or\par
faculty.\b\fs24\par
2) Admin login \b0\fs22 :After registering the admin is allowed to\par
log in. He or she can now view admin homepage where there are\par
options to take attendance, upload results, send notifications to\par
student. He can also view the attendance taken and uploaded\par
results.\b\fs24\par
3) Update gallery :\b0\fs22  Admin can add pictures to gallery this\par
image goes to image gallery. this images are visible to student as\par
well as teacher\par
\b\fs28 [B] Teaching staff:\fs24\par
1) Upload circular:\b0\fs22  Through this a staff cans uplode a\par
notice to student. it will make easy to retrieve important notice\par
like exam or holiday can be delivered to student\par
\b\fs24 2) Upload Attendance:\b0\fs22  Teaching faculty can show\par
attendance of students. So student will know his attendance. and\par
also he is passing a attendance criteria or not\par
\b\fs24 3) Communicate: \b0\fs22 In this the staff can uplode important\par
notes or convey any message to student. or staff can message\par
students\par
\b\fs28 [C] Student:\b0\fs22\par
\b\fs24 1) View Attendance:\b0\fs22  Students can view attendance\par
uploaded by the faculty or HOD. They receive a PDF file\par
and can view it anytime\b\fs24\par
2) Communicate:\b0\fs22  Student can also communicate with each\par
other and send files\b\fs24\par
3) Check gallery:\b0\fs22  Images can be seen by student\par
\b\fs24 4) View circular sent by teacher:\b0\fs22  Notices are sent to the\par
students by HOD or admin. Useful information, college\par
notices, important announcements are received on students\par
registered account. They can view it anytime.\b\fs28\par
V. ADVANTAGES OF SYSTEM \b0\fs22\par
1. It overcomes the limitations of the web based system as our\par
proposed system is developed on Android OS.\par
2. As the current system is manual it does not require any\par
sophisticated training for the User of the system.\par
3. Students do not have to visit the college notice board every\par
time\par
4. No chance of the mistake as calculations for attendance will\par
be automated.\par
\b\fs28\par
VI. CONCLUSION\par
\par
\b0\fs22 An Android based mobile application for College Management\par
System is presented. The application offers reliability, time\par
savings and easy control. It can be used as a base for creating\par
and enhancing applications for viewing results, tracking\par
attendance for colleges or any workplace. Students and their\par
parents will also view attendance and curriculum details using\par
this application. Also students can view details, notifications\par
anywhere and anytime.\par
\par
\b\fs28 VII. REFERENCES\par
\b0\fs22\par
[1] S.R.Bharamagoudar, Geeta R.B., S.G.Totad \ldblquote Web Based\par
Student Information Management System\rdblquote , International Journal\par
of Advanced Research in Computer and Communication\par
Engineering -June 2013, ISSN: 2319-5940\par
[2] Yang Shulin, Hu jipieng \ldblquote Research and Implementation of\par
Web Services in Android Network Communication\par
Framework Volley\rdblquote  IEEE- ICCSN.2014.20.\par
[3] Suchita Tayde, Asst. Prof. Seema Siledar \ldblquote File Encryption,\par
Decryption Using AES Algorithm in Android Phone\rdblquote ,\par
International Journal of Advanced Research in Computer\par
Science and Software Engineering, May-2015, ISSN: 2277\par
128X.\par
[4] K. B. Lee, \ldblquote Developing Mobile Collaborative Learning\par
Application for Mobile Users.\rdblquote  International Journal of\par
Interactive Mobile Technologies, Vol 5, No 4, 2011, pp. 42-48.\b\fs28\par
}
 